Pre-order traversal using the stack.
Here's an implementation of doing pre-order on a tree,
but there's something missing which is causing an infinite loop.
So let's see what we can learn from this.
So this pre-order with Stack Buggy is taking in a tree.
It's also going to keep track of the visits with this list,
and it will also use a stack to help it backtrack.
It starts out getting the root and pushes it onto the stack.
It also makes sure to take the top of the stack.
So this is for clarity purposes,
but technically this node was already set to
the top of the stack because it just pushed that node.
But here you can see we're going to visit the root node before continuing.
So we do that by appending it to the visit order list.
I added some counter and a limit to the count,
just so that this while loop will stop after a while.
Then we can look at the output and see what's happening.
So you can see that it's going to check if the node has a left child,
otherwise, it will also check if it has a right child.
Otherwise, it will check when it's
either visited the left and right children or there's a leaf node,
then it will start to backtrack,
go back up the tree,
which means it would pop the stack.
So let's take a look more closely here.
When we're checking if there's a Left Child,
then we'll go down and traverse into that left child,
meaning we'll also keep track of it by pushing it onto the stack.
Then we'd look at the top of the stack,
we're going to go into that node,
and we're going to that node because it's pre-order traversal.
We're going to visit that node,
and to denote that we're appending it to the visit order list.
For the right child node,
it's the same thing.
When we get to a leaf node, for instance,
we would pop that leaf node off the stack,
and if the stack still has something in it,
then we'll move on to that top of the stack.
So it's as if you are looking at a child node and then popping off the stack,
so there you're moving up to the parent node.
There's also the case where when we've
finished going through all of the nodes in the tree and we're back up to the root node,
then that happens here where the stack is empty.
Then we'll set the node to none,
which will also break the loop here.
So I don't expect you to see what the problem is right away,
but we can just run it and then look at the output and see what's happening.
So here you can see in the beginning it's doing what we expect.
We have apple, which is the root node,
we push it on the stack.
We also have banana,
We have dates, we push it onto the stack.
So we pop dates off and then we have banana as the top of the stack now.
But interestingly, it looks like we're pushing dates back onto the stack,
even though we wanted to keep moving back up the tree.
So what's happening here?
Notice we visited apple, banana, dates,
and it should go back up the tree so then it would not revisit dates,
but it looks like it's revisiting dates and dates again.
So let's see a visual of what's going on.
So what's happening here is,
so far it was working when we go from apple,
to banana, to dates,
and then it goes back up.
So pops D off the stack and goes back up to banana, and then from B,
what we wanted to do is to check the right sub-tree if there's anything,
traverse it, otherwise go back up.
But we don't want it to go back down to someplace it already visited.
What's happening in fact,
is that when we get to B,
the logic is saying,
"Okay, check if there's something in the left sub-tree," there is.
So let's traverse down the left sub-tree.
So what it's doing is it's going back to this node and we don't want that.
So every time we pop D and return to B,
we end up pushing D back onto the stack and visiting D again.
So we can see how to fix this.